---
layout: post
title: The curse of time
description: s0rdan's reflections \#2
---

All resolutions fade in time. It goes the same for all experiences, they become memories and gradually fade away. It can sometimes be beneficial, think of some traumatic event that is better off roaming in the limbs rather than at the forefront of your everyday thoughts.
There come moments of great clarity, periods of great calm and serenity. From these, we draw a new-found breath for life, a motivation that lifts us from mediocrity. But invariably, we fall down. Over and over again. We would ideally like to stay forever on this ascending curve, but something tips us over the edge, and we are back to where we always have been.

All these good resolutions that we take, these great motivations that we find, they simply get drowned in time, evaporating after every day. Small things suffice to send us rolling down the hill. What can we do? Should we constantly remind ourselves of our new-found resolutions? Should we hang around posters and motivational quotations reminding ourselves of our goals? Or maybe we should simply try to refocus our minds, daily, on the things that matter.

There will be weaknesses. As a matter of fact there always are. One may be tired, sick, and thus particularly prone to relapsing; our control must be constant, like a never-unclenching iron fist. It sounds cold, but such is discipline. Maybe after some time, good habits take a natural place in our lives, and become the natural choice. Remaining attentive to the fluctuations of our minds, through reflection and writing, controlling our energies, through sport and meditation, engaging in creative projects, musical or otherwise, talking to other human beings, as we are social creatures after all; these are activities one should do every day.

Engaging in intellectual activities can exhaust our powers of concentration. It is in turn easier to succumb to mindless expenditures of our remaining time and energy. This is not to say that one should never rest; rest is ultimately necessary. We must balance movement and stillness, but both are needed for our well-being. This is not to say however, that our choice of resting activities may not be more carefully selected and as ---if not more --- fulfilling, or that our powers of concentration may not be expanded through time and practice. Or that we will not find great accomplishement in doing things that we were meant for.

Let us be attentive. Let us be aware of the crevices in our resolution, and what may enhance them. Let us exhert an iron-fist control, let us always ask « why? », before undertaking any action. And if the answer is positive, if it seems to align with our deepest desires, let us engage in it fully, let us give it our best, with no other interest than the happiness it provides us, and our increasing ability to serve others better. Never forget that the benefits that you reap are directy proportional to the effort you put in sowing. Things take time to grow. So better start sowing now.